raspi-scripts/notes/small_scripts.md, before:

# Small Scripts Documentation

This file will document what each of the relevant scripts are, how to run them, and some relevant information regarding properties of the data we are trying to acquire from the raspberry pi.

Note: When making a script for the camera, you are never allowed to call it `picamzero.py`.

### `camera_onboard.py`
This script showcases most of the availabile configuration options when taking photos/videos with the raspberry pi. I think looking at this file is more useful than actual documentation.\
Probably don't actually run this file.

### `gen_trial_imgs.py`
This script takes a set of images in a way that simulates regular operation of the camera. Feel free to duplicate or modify if you wish to adjust parameters such as resolution, image capture frequency, or the image levels.

### TODO?
Eventually we should probably add scripts which:
- Simulate final operation [pic: (take picture, run preprocessing, send to server) + (mic detect speech, send query, output result) ]
- Possibly attempt to run the model locally to see if the rpi can cope with the workload
- Test microphone capability

Commit message:

added more robust perf, increased documentation, and new utils directory

raspi-scripts/notes/small_scripts.md, after:

# Small Scripts Documentation

This file will document what each of the relevant scripts are, how to run them, and some relevant information regarding properties of the data we are trying to acquire from the raspberry pi.

Note: When making a script for the camera, you are never allowed to call it `picamzero.py`.

### `camera_onboard.py`
This script showcases most of the availabile configuration options when taking photos/videos with the raspberry pi. I think looking at this file is more useful than actual documentation.\
Probably don't actually run this file.

### `gen_trial_imgs.py`
This script takes a set of images in a way that simulates regular operation of the camera. Feel free to duplicate or modify if you wish to adjust parameters such as resolution, image capture frequency, or the image levels.

### `funny_ip/`
**This only works on linux and maaaybe mac!!**\
This directory contains functionality for you to send your ip address to my google drive. This is good because you need the ip address to ssh into the pi, and if for some reason it randomly switches on you, you would otherwise have to plug it into a monitor and keyboard to find out the new ip address. To set it up, follow these steps:
- Go to the `funny ip` dir.
- run `python3 insert_files.py`. DM me and I can tell you what values to put in.
- run `. ./setup_script.sh`
  - You might have to run `crontab -e` first if it gets mad at you

Note: the instructions markdown file is chatgpt output on how to setup a google drive account.

### TODO?
Eventually we should probably add scripts which:
- Simulate final operation [pic: (take picture, run preprocessing, send to server) + (mic detect speech, send query, output result) ]
- Possibly attempt to run the model locally to see if the rpi can cope with the workload
- Test microphone capability
